---
title: Day 2
subtitle: The Luge
description: ""
pubDate: 2017-04-03
source: https://newzealand2017.stevenocchipinti.com/the-luge/
---

import Grid from "../../../components/AutoPhotoGrid.astro"
import Img from "../../../components/CloudinaryImg.astro"

Today our main plan was to go to the Luge at the top of the mountain near our
hotel and see how we go for time after that. It was about a 5-10 minute walk and
we arrived at the base of the mountain where there was the Skyline Gondola
terminal. We paid about $59 for tickets that included the gondola up the
mountain, seven luge rides and chairlift access.

Because our hotel is so close we got there fairly early and there weren't many
people so we were at the top in no time. The way up was nice and calm and we
even saw mountain goat along the way! At the top there were stunning panoramic
views of the lake and para gliders launching from behind us and gently circling
around in front of the viewing area.

<Grid>
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/acin3srge5mtdxxayl7m" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/lijneatuqt8c1ulyoe5u" />
</Grid>

We got some food and drink at the cafe before making our way to the top to do
our first luge. Rob has a fear of heights but he did pretty well on the gondola
ride up. The chairlift however was a different story, that freaked him out a
little so he decided not go on that one and walk up the mountain instead.
Surprisingly he actually made it to the top in a similar time to us.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/yzsj5bvcavalaoisbjgj" />

For the first luge down the mountain it is compulsory to get a short tutorial
from an assistant and to take the "scenic route", also known as the slow track.
Even on our first go we were pushing the limits of those little carts a bit,
some of the corners are pretty sharp and with enough speed you end up on two
wheels. It was pretty fun!

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/stz4i4q32ujcenmlp065" />

The next time around Rob and Chris walked up the mountain and we took the
chairlift, but this time we took the fast track! It was actually a little
shorter but there are some extra drops that let you pick up a bit more speed.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/sgvyrv9viva2me0nlj68" />

At a couple of spots around the track and on the chairlift there are cameras
that take photos of you as you pass. We tried pretty hard to get as many people
in a photo as we could. After about three or four attempts we managed to get
about five of us in a single photo!

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/tsi5q2iggmuqnq39kll4" />

About half way through we stopped for lunch at the cafe again and finished off
our last few laps. After seven laps with a group of seven people, we had
accumulated a lot of photos so we spent a fair bit of time with the assistant
going through and picking the ones we wanted prints of. It was kind of expensive
and they wouldn't let us buy just digital copies, but we did get a digital copy
with each print we bought.

Chris bought some plush sheep from the gift shop and we headed back to our
hotel. We still had a fair while left of the day so we decided to go for a drive
to a nearby bridge where they do bungee jumping.

There are two activities to do here, the zipline and the bungee jump. We sat
at the viewing area to watch for a bit and then walked over to the bridge they
were jumping off. Rob had a pretty hard time trying to cross that bridge with
his fear of heights but after some persistence and some help he got across! Well
done Rob!

<Grid>
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/ehf0jlfbuuqwe72hqcwu" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/gjdzwgiip81wthsjpmxm" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/l8kcwd6yh8mzuo5vgdcl" />
</Grid>

Joseph almost did a bungee jump but we were talking to the assistant on the
bridge and she explained that the impact on the body is somewhat similar to
jumping of a meter high platform but with potential twisting but with an ACL
injury this would probably not be a good idea so that didn't happen.

On the way there we saw a lookout over a lake, we didn't stop on the way there
but we did on the way back. It was a little windy, but it was an open enough
area I thought I'd try the drone here and see how it handles the wind. It
actually did really well! It's so much better than my Phantom 1! I'm still not
very smooth with the recordings, but the practice is good.

From here we drove back towards town and stopped by a dried up river bed for
some photos. It was a nice walk along the river with an awesome view of the
clouds going over the mountain and a really impressive rainbow. At one point
there was even a double rainbow!

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/hyhpfczmxwzenswcvimf" />

While everyone was skipping rocks over the water, I couldn't help but think it
was a great location to go for a fly with the drone but the same clouds that
were over the mountain had started making their way towards us. Just as some
light rain started we headed back to the car and back to town for dinner.

We ended up stopping at Erik's Fish and Chips for dinner. I got a Hoki and chips
meal for about $10 and most others got a "hot dog" but it was actually like
mince meat wrapped around a stick which was not what they were expecting.

From here we went back to the hotel to get some towels as all of us (except Chris
and Joseph) had booked a session at a local onsen! We got our stuff, gave the
key for the smaller car to them and we took the van about 5-10 minutes to the
onsen.

Anthony and Amy got one pool and Rob, Tom and I got another one - very romantic!
The pool was like a giant wooden wine barrel with a bench on the inside. There
were controls to dim the lights, activate the jets and open a huge door for a
view of the mountain and the stars! Unfortunately it was a pretty cloudy night
so you couldn't see any stars (or anything else for that matter) but it was a
nice and relaxing way to finish off our day.

After soaking for about an hour we left the place in a very calm and sleepy
manner. We stopped by a grocery store to pick up supplies for our early 6AM
start tomorrow to go to Milford Sound! We ended up buying bread rolls, cold
meats, etc. to make breakfast/lunch on the go.

One more stop before going back to the hotel. It's Chris' birthday today and we
wanted to get him a cookie cake from Cookie Time. We stopped by but it turns out
those cakes aren't pre-made and it was too late for them to make one so we ended
up getting a bunch of cookies instead. Back at the hotel we all went to Anth and
Amy's room, gave him a surprise set of glow sticks as a present (Chris loves
glow sticks, checkout the maid cafe blog post from our Japan trip), broke up
the cookies for everyone to share and sang him happy birthday.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/cpczbhazq16nqdodttgn" />

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_DNju0K9NrE"
  frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

We all went to bed soon after that, we're all pretty exhausted by this point!
