---
title: Cyclone Wedding
description: ""
featured: false
seriesId: 2017-new-zealand
orderInSeries: 13
pubDate: 2017-04-13
tags: []
source: https://newzealand2017.stevenocchipinti.com/cyclone-wedding/
---

Today was the big day! Anthony and Amy would finally make it official. Normally
for the morning of a wedding I'd be putting on a suit, my best leather shoes
and trying to remember how to tie a tie again but this wedding is very
different! Not only was there no massive ceremony with hundreds of people but we
were in the middle of a holiday and most of the people on the trip didn't even
know there would be a wedding. This made for not only a nice surprise but a
super relaxed wedding! Instead of putting on a suit, I was putting on our custom
made Star Wars T-shirts with our faces on them and my plain old sneakers.

We went to the cafe near the hotel for breakfast while Amy and Madi were out
getting their hair done, etc. (Not quite as relaxing for them but still very
relaxed compared to most weddings I've seen). While most of us were wearing the
Star Wars T-shirts (because its traditional for the groomsmen to wear matching
clothes and this is the best we could come up with), Anthony wasn't. Anthony was
wearing a much more formal tuxedo T-shirt.

After eating some food and wishing Anthony all the best for the ceremony we
jumped into our big, bright hire van (not your typical wedding car) and drove to
the registry office. After meeting the registrar we all headed in to what looked
like the main courtroom. I was tasked with capturing the events so with my
camera at hand, I did my best to take as many photos as were needed. There was a
small amount of formalities and then documentation to be signed, accompanied by
jokes and laughing from our small but rather loud crowd. Considering most
more formal ceremonies have a lot of silence from the crowd, this less formal
wedding also meant more laughing which made it feel very intimate.

Eventually it was my turn to get up and sign on the dotted line, so I handed my
camera over to Rob who took on the important job of capturing every moment a
little too literal. I don't think he even let go of the shutter release the
whole time! I now have quite a lot of photos go through!

With the ceremony complete and Anthony and Amy officially announced as husband
and wife, the crowd went wild! We took a moment to recognise how amazing this
very different wedding was. Mid way through a holiday, a surprise wedding occurs
in a foreign country, in the middle of a cyclone, surrounded by a small group of
close friends and family, where the wedding car is a hire van and almost
everyone is in comfortable traveling clothes and novelty T-shirts.

From here we drove down to the lake for some outdoor wedding photos by the lake.
Also not your typical wedding photos. The lake was overflowing, there was
temporary fencing preventing anyone from getting too close and the wind carried
a cold, light spray of water in each large gust, but determined we all got out,
took some photos and then hurried our way back in.

By this stage, everyone was hungry so headed to The Pig and Whistle and ordered
ourselves a nice big celebration lunch - literally, the burgers were huge!

The plan for the rest of the day was to head over to Hobbiton where the
equivalent of the wedding reception would be a massive Hobbit feast, however due
to the weather warnings we thought we should probably go to The Hobbit shop and
see if the tours would still run.

Our band of merry wedding goers, dressed in our wedding attire arrived at the
shop, cold and damp. Amy, even on her wedding day, took the lead and got the
information we needed to plan the rest of day. There was a very high chance that
the one mountain pass road we needed to get to (and from) Hobbiton would be
closed or blocked by damage, not to mention Hobbiton itself being closed - even
though on the phone the lady from Hobbiton sounded quite confident they would
still be open rain, hail or shine. It sounded like an epic tale in itself but
together we decided it would be better to play it safe and heed the official
advice to get supplies, bolt the hatches and watch Netflix.

We rescheduled Hobbiton for our last day, just in time and drove over to the
supermarket for supplies. Just to add to this amazing, intimate wedding
experience the rest of the wedding night ended up being a movie night in a hotel
room, with snacks from the grocery store and cyclone weather outside.

What a great day!
