---
title: Day 10
subtitle: Wellington To Rotarua
description: ""
pubDate: 2017-04-11
source: https://stevenocchipinti.github.io/2017-NewZealand-Blog/wellington-to-rotarua/
---

import Grid from "@/components/Grid.astro"
import Img from "@/components/Img.astro"

Today we checked out of the hotel, packed the car and started our long journey
to Rotorua. The drive is supposed to take close to six hours but we always allow
much longer than that so we can stop along the way as we need to.

One of Tom's friends recommended a stop along this route to a small place that
supposedly sells cheese ice cream! I have never had cheese ice cream and it
sounded pretty interesting so we decided to navigate there.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/gh8gdkkorm35l0kerrog" />

It was actually fairly hard to find, there wasn't much signage and we had to
take some fairly barren looking roads to get there even though it was supposed to
be right off the highway. We eventually found a place that looked like they sold
ice cream. They had a few flavours but we couldn't any cheese flavour so we
asked them but they had no idea what we were talking about! Tom verified with
his friend but it turns out there was supposed to be a comma between cheese and
ice cream! We had a good laugh and ordered other flavours of ice cream anyway.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/prpnnj50xklwyzgacsay" />

We sat out the front in the fairly deserted town and ate our snacks and patting
the local cat before switching drivers and continuing our journey.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/r1trnhykgosdyslsfhbn" />

Looking at the map later, there is a "Kapiti Cheeses Ice Cream" marker but I
don't think its what we thought it was!

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/wq3n68cpkenttxkj9zzu" />

We made a few stops along the way for lunch, etc. but we basically spent the
whole day driving! Along the way to Rotorua is a place called Taupo which
Anthony and Amy had been to before and spoke very highly of Taupo De Bretts, a
mineral hot spring place that was more like a water park! There were small
private pools, much larger public ones and even a water slide! As soon as we
arrived I had barely taken my seat belt off before Amy had collected her bag and
towel, yelled "bye" and was half way to counter! After driving for most of the
day it was pretty nice to relax in the warm water. We stayed there for a bit
over an hour before we had to go to continue to Rotorua. When we all met up
again Amy broke the news that she had received a phone call from the volcano
tour company and that due to severe weather the volcano tour would be cancelled!

I got a few dirty looks at this point! My history with volcanos has not been
good. Two cancelled holidays to Bali, a slight detour in Japan and now this. It
seems my luck is pretty bad when it comes to volcanoes.

We continued to Rotorua and finally checked into our hotel. It was fairly late
by this stage but the staff there were really nice and let us fix up the bill
later during our stay. They gave us a quick tour of the hotel which had its own
hot spring pools. The hot water from the earth was used to heat the main
swimming pool and the rooms while also being pumped into the smaller more
private pools. The whole place did stink quite a bit from the sulphur, sometimes
worse than others but there was no escaping it, the whole area was like this! It
didn't take us too long to adapt to the smell anyway.

By the time we got to the hotel, Amy's friend Madi had already arrived and
greeted us as we were getting shown to our rooms. Madi was down for the wedding
and Anthony's parents were due to arrive tomorrow. After dropping off our bags
we all got in the car and headed down the main strip to find somewhere to eat.
The town wasn't huge, especially compared to Wellington. Once we knew where the
main street was it was pretty easy to get around. There were a few options for
dinner but we decided to try the saloon restaurant to finish up our day and it
was pretty good. We didn't do a whole bunch today but it was a pretty big day!
After dinner we all went to bed!
