---
title: Hobbiton And Farewell
description: ""
featured: false
seriesId: 2017-new-zealand
orderInSeries: 16
pubDate: 2017-04-16
tags: []
source: https://newzealand2017.stevenocchipinti.com/hobbiton-and-farewell/
---

Our last did not involve a nice relaxing sleep in, instead we got up really
early to drive out to Hobbiton to be there for our 9am tour. We arrived just in
time and once again transferred over to a tour bus to get to the Alexander Farm.

Peter Jackson surveyed a lot of land via helicopter to find the perfect shooting
location for Hobbiton and once we arrived on site it was clear why he picked
this place. Wide open spaces, massive rolling hills and greenery everywhere. It
was a beautiful spot and with the tour video playing the Lord Of The Rings music
in the background it was starting to feel like we were in Middle Earth.

On our tour we learned that this farm became quite popular once the movie was
released but soon after that the set was all packed up. Nevertheless, people
would always stop by the farm to see where all the magic happened and eventually
the set was rebuilt for the purpose of making it accessible to the public.

We also learned about the maintenance required for the farm as all the gardens
and vegetation were the real thing, not props and therefore a number of staff to
look after things.

It was really nice walking around, every now and then we would come across
something that reminded us of a scene from the movies or a small detail like the
tiny hobbit sized clothes handing on the clothes line out the back or the
intricately painted design on a vase in a window that could have easily been
missed and makes you appreciated how much effort goes into making a set like
this.

Earlier in our trip we learned about the technique of forced perspective and it
was also demonstrated here with various sizes of hobbit holes, most of which
where too small to actually enter or were just a doorway with the base
essentials behind it make it look like there was actually room inside where in
actual fact there was not much more than the dirt from the hill it was built in.

After walking around and taking photos for a bit we arrived back at The Green
Dragon Inn where we tasted some locally brewed beer and Amy and Rob tried on
some Hobbit clothing.

From there it was on to The Party Tent, which I think is meant to be from the
scene where Bilbo departs Hobbiton. The original booking was to be in a
different section but regardless of where we were or what day it was, we were
determined to have a Hobbit styled wedding feast!

After eating a pretty big meal and taking a few more photos of this picturesque
place, we got back on our bus and back to our cars with our next and final stop
being Auckland.

It was a big contrast arriving in Auckland from Hobbiton, we went from such a
big open, green farm land to the dense concrete jungle of a major city in one
car ride but to balance it out a little we decided to head to Mount Eden first
which had a massive (green) crater at the top and nice panoramic views from the
lookout point. We spent a bit of time wondering around, taking in the sights and
reflecting on our awesome holiday.

We've done a lot of driving, ate a lot of burgers, seen cities, lush green
hills, stunning lakes, rainbows, thick morning fog, ice capped mountains and
even walked through an ice tunnel in the middle of a glacier and survived a
cyclone wedding. I had my first helicopter and jet boat experiences and while we
didn't end up going to White Island to see a volcano up close, we got to see a
good amount of volcanic hot springs and thankfully erupting volcanoes didn't
cancel this trip like my two previous attempts to going to Bali! All this with
amazing company tons of fun and laughter!

A big thank you to Amy for organising this incredible holiday, your efforts a
greatly appreciated!
