---
title: Day 5
subtitle: Lake Tekapo
description: ""
pubDate: 2017-04-06
source: https://stevenocchipinti.github.io/2017-NewZealand-Blog/lake-tekapo/
---

import Grid from "@components/Grid.astro"
import Img from "@components/Img.astro"

This morning we checked out of our accommodation in Queenstown and headed in the
direction of Christchurch but with a stop at a place called Lake Tekapo for a
helicopter ride to a glacier for a hike. The only problem is that the weather
was not very good today! It was rainy and cloudy but because the weather changes
so fast around here we continued with our plan and needed to check in with the
tour company closer to the time.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/yxru8xpouazvpt0hgp8w" />

Along the way we had a quick stop at the hydro station for some photos and
pulled into a small town along the way for breakfast. We were looking for a
place that served coffee and the first one we saw was a sushi cafe and with our
group we were bound to stop there! I didn't feel like sushi for breakfast so I
just had a hot chocolate and we continued on to the helicopter tour office.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/r9uenkpfxmfj49nibggw" />

It was a bit of a drive, but we eventually got there and it was really cloudy
and still raining a little bit. We went inside and the lady in the office said
that we had to cancel today but we could reschedule for tomorrow. We got fitted
for our boots and crampons (which are the spikes for the bottom of the boots)
and signed the waiver so when we came back tomorrow we would be all prepared.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/yldri9ran61mgetif1vo" />

From there we headed into town for some lunch. We stopped at a pretty nice
alpine lodge looking place and had a burger. There was a little fireplace and a
great view of the mountains. After relaxing at this place for a while we went to
the visitor center and looked around there for a bit and finally went over to
the glacier lake for a little hike.

<Grid>
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/bs3yilvupfzkkifqraqi" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/zs9q8cwzh8socfd3m80k" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/xzdcfvtdmilncgafromn" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/ivwbbwcr06eoc8kks90s" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/ou2rr5uc2beboikwinuq" />
</Grid>

The hike was fairly short but my fitness level is pretty poor right now and
climbing uphill for that long definitely puffed me out! The view from top was
really nice though. You could just about see a cross section of the glacier on
the edge of the lake. It was mostly a dirty brown color but you could see
highlights of bright blue from the side. Because it was lightly raining I didn't
bring my camera or drone but I took some photos with my phone.

<Grid>
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/f9civqxywogeacptrpku" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/rsqf1rc9bhz7ksexmfkv" />
</Grid>

We continued driving for about an hour to our accommodation. The drive was
pretty nice and we stopped along the way for some sunset photos. There was a
pretty big group of people with cameras and tripods up on a ridge to take photos
too!

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/d2yl1vt4puiszeeinhnw" />

By the time we got to the accommodation it was dark and it was a little
challenging to find the office to check in, but we got there in the end. The
accommodation was pretty cool, it was a pretty big house with four bedrooms, a
hot tub out the back and a great view of the mountains! A few of us were very
keen on making use of the tub and the guy in the office said it has been on for
a while and should be nice and hot, ready to use! Before we do that though, we
thought we better get some dinner. We all dumped our stuff and went into town.

We made a quick stop at a convenience store and I finally found the much hyped
Limited Edition Fruju Tropical Snow ice cream! The only problem was that both
the convenience store and the dinner places would not be open for long. If I
bought one now I couldn't really eat it right before dinner and if I wait it
would be closed by the time we're done, so we bought one and left it in the car
while we had dinner thinking there was a chance that being so cold at night it
would be ok.

We went to the highest rated restaurant in town which also happened to be
Japanese. I ordered a pretty big meal! It was a big bento box that came with a
side of tempura vegetables and miso soup.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/y49nxupsu12uxestg5ch" />

We finished up with dinner and headed back to the house. On the way out there
was a pretty big gift shop so we had a look around. I saw kiwi fruit chocolate
and thought that could be interesting and Chris wanted a block as well, so Rob
and I were joking that we should get five blocks because we would get a sixth
one free as part of the their promotion. Chris wasn't keen on the idea but we
kept hounding him until we eventually walked off to pay for a single block. As
soon as he got to the register, the cashier said "Did you know if you get five
you get one free" and we all started laughing and Chris hesitantly bought some
more chocolate. After getting ripped off with tourist chocolate we headed back
to the hotel.

When we got back I checked that ice cream but it had completely melted even in
the cold weather! This was probably obvious but we had to try! We ended up
putting it in the freezer so we could try again later. While I was checking on
that, Amy and Tom had already got into their bathers and were on the way to the
hot tub, Rob and I joined in soon after! It was really cold outside so the walk
between the house and tub was not very pleasant, especially on the way back but
the tub was great! When we turned the lights off and let our eyes adjust,
sitting there in a hot tub staring out at the mountains were really cool. They
were a bit more visible here than at the onsen we went to Queenstown.

After soaking for a bit, Amy got out and got a glimpse of the stars in the nice,
clear night sky. Just around the corner from our hotel was a famous church that
is a popular spot with photographers because of the nearby lake and mountains
and Amy was really keen on going so she managed to convince me to get out of the
nice warm water and into the cold to go take photos.

We got our tripods and camera gear and drove over to the church. There was a
massive group of photographers here with the same thought as us. Apart from a
few people sitting at the base of the church and a pretty bright moon, the
photos turned out ok, but we didn't spend too long out there to make them
perfect because it was pretty cold!

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/vprt3lkvuxr8v4icumfz" />

We got back to the house around 1AM and went to bed. We were only at this place
for one night which was a bit of a shame, it seemed like a great place to spend
some time.
