---
title: Tasman Glacier And Christchurch
description: ""
featured: false
seriesId: 2017-new-zealand
orderInSeries: 7
pubDate: 2017-04-07
tags: []
source: https://newzealand2017.stevenocchipinti.com/tasman-glacier-and-christchurch/
---

This morning we left the house to go back to the helicopter tour place. The
weather was so much better than yesterday, it was fairly warm in the sun,
nothing but clear blue skies and barely any wind. Looks like a great day for a
helicopter ride!

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/CwNrdRhClarXeTM8eVHQkAFAJYcNjxwDMgyXGpnEkgTmLuroaSo0FzbQcdyCYTkfhiJnSeBlN_JMKs5aphb1UyMIudGitSRCQF-I-skxHSQFX8JF6urEizE1PQmlz6dYkk2bsA)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipMoT_pcR6iQfL9rZo9SHWOKF0vXSQ6jOYtPzgAT-UaNt7wE9dC4nHN3WWd3YjrnnQ?key=S2tDT2Rqb3A3blZJaGhmbGExV3V6UFB5ejhRSVRR&source=ctrlq.org)

We went to the helitour place, prepared our gear that we organised from
yesterday and got into groups as designated by the tour company to balance out
the weight in the helicopter. Anthony, Amy and I were in one helicopter with
some other tourists and the rest of the guys were in another one.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/NiUPJ0nL0wr0ZigNm7zwN_Oe1hof-8fELHjdHXmYZ9E-Yamxx-VJ7LmLJIF25CRyMsxspoUDEndkNhHpPPO53E44CTTdRgXB3GV8Gz6SJUzF3KIo43aEGqcx6Sk_pnqwr8HKng)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipP3SyUm-wSREJsuxsjisdA4FgeM4USeJo8G7ARAFpn2sMBc3ydA_j_ZmAPfe3nepw?key=WnR1U1cwbDhyNDhMRG1xQ1FwZlVsTHI5RWxmTFdn&source=ctrlq.org)

The tour company were really good, they even told the tour guides on the ice
that we were all one group so we could switch around once we arrived. The first
group made their way to the helicopter area, Rob was a little nervous but it
sounded like he did pretty well. The helicopter needed to take them out to the
glacier then come back to pick us up so we had about a 20 minute wait.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/xOOiRRj-lW-Pu2yjpHd8KzaHF0aGP0eWz2FSNmU8rf45gAYwvn5XVW9q0PpkAkqvQ_WrsYRQSLrj3H4CSCBe4nivQ-88VX_dnmtz5nl-1Jl5MHQwiXAYiA5FWdMvxcojCiFJSw)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipMj_n1CaT9fWxyue6NgibJ8mLYvT3bK-wtq8sQFsCplB127XNdqsGhpKy3k8KgQ-Q?key=R3hpTE13V3kwM2cxcFJkdG1nVWh5ak9oRG9hZU5B&source=ctrlq.org)

Before long we made our way to the landing area and we got to feel the
powerful wind generated by the helicopter as it touched down right in front of
us. They are pretty incredible machines! We followed our instructions, got on
board and put our seat belts and headphones on while our pilot Sir Douglass
lifted off. I've never been in a helicopter before, it was pretty cool!

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/UH42o24mOFfoPiA3EU8AwnTGPgFxdk_iVQ8APl7fHq3uDNyyyoIPu41Hj2j7TS9fBAbbo2yKsYKvmQ71FpSmZahXKlbphjSQk-tCzPS2RXxV8EiIw620HAMQxvBFbOSc9WejMg)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipOD12oBfHgMSGY5i6O0h9FqFw6CX0-973HvUtU7UzD4YUrnZd9zRf2A6jHKxTnhpQ?key=VTZrN1VZekNTclYwNUNiSjhmc2VwLVdKa1BpX2dn&source=ctrlq.org)

After a nice smooth climb we flew for about 10 minutes or so and we were over
the glacier. It was a pretty awesome view from the helicopter. There was
supposedly a helicopter landing area on the ice but you wouldn't know it by
looking at it. We landed and got out of the helicopter straight on to the ice.
It was pretty slippery but we managed to get down a little ridge, crouch down
and cover our eyes as the helicopter loaded up with the previous group and took
off. As it left it blew a lot of wind and small pieces of ice in all directions.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/zcM0ylQd0cTSlskEtxRByMkBcZJmuBU4ca_sVG6oXCUUoik7C3XMWkRcUP0Yx3bWgbuxJWj-o7l_RH8oST4UyTcOev1qZB5zdWToFBDdRTFxNn-xs5KWEQPC4ZCXV7LajG4n9A)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipMCC1gYYbP057HOaFGlkusyrvVrXfz-M9AjM4eTeUAnxX1mLb4E5XEQtBFbT4w9IA?key=REJQM05USXdaWlBrTW9XakxsVDVPVmdhNE1HaW5B&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/Z6SQDegH2a_xZ0RIXmcAZL6oQKiFRO-36cu4QCk2jMpY1QDpw6auZ2IXQdKrq2jswvfByDSdHHlc4F7-qys_qWMvuYBqeM33LBKcQwoMo20mLquTfB-ha8Oaigu172sboNBiFw)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipNno-p3tvanx8ioFKEr3J7laV_P4etvHSujNnlfNODgfTYmuFCUMcISCaNaZD751w?key=ZTA4VGd6M2tkRjR5MFZZcGk5VHNYOHF6YUlxREJR&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/X4Gze-9zY8xTAHualj3J2dGFmI0NG_V1kWFCvqsOF0Pqq9qWSjOxUKosM1PiN7TVbqeixNOJ1sBaK11DurdWiHLz7YqgkkvEFgH1mMQUF8Lc_kguhrP_xMEh9wjt9hVpQYYp0Q)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipN6Y1MJv40TW_LMBdHQiW9kxaQquvZKUICzHX6ygLdvp0abb2l7rKgxo6ZzFC2FiQ?key=dTVpUGhjSVBtN0ZRcGhzUDl3NGR1SlNpNGgwenJ3&source=ctrlq.org)

Once the helicopter had left we met our tour guides and switched our groups
around. Our guides then helped us get our crampons on (which are the steel
spikes for the bottom of our boots). Once we were all ready we started walking
around to get a feel for what it's like. The ground beneath us was not soft
snow, it was ice! It was a little broken up but without the crampons it would be
really tough, especially because it was not flat at all and walking up or down a
slippery ice slope did not feel natural at all!

We started getting the hang of walking around and our tour guide said she would
provide some more challenging bits for us to walk soon. The instructions were
also to walk in a single file as she could find the safest path through the ice
and as long as we didn't stray from the path we wouldn't have any troubles
getting through it. She carried a pretty big pickaxe to cut steps out of some of
the more tough ridges to make it a little easier for us.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/AQVc098YqamaeT4qZlfGsB42vH52poVfP7e1AJcTaXMn3HLTZ76zyoczYrf34znMqdrql6tqHqXVJUFRRi5Ujeh6ZDilim6UNmOglXYHUeGc0-tQVMztcA5paW5Shu2lZkVOJA)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipPbksMza60XTN-n6OUZIE9K4xOWqt4C3qcAV_IpXmaDOfeHFD36Fq76Yf-EJD2CCw?key=eEgwU0FUZElILV9SenNobjAyOWtrZm40Z0NaNklB&source=ctrlq.org)

Along the ice were little streams of water that would eventually freeze up and
create tiny ice tunnels. It was like a flat sheet of glass with a stream of
running water underneath it, it looked awesome! We eventually found some holes
in the ice which our tour guide found safe, sturdy paths around. As we got
closer she asked us to stand still and just listen as you could hear gushing
water underneath the ice. She also smashed some ice down the hole so we could
hear just how far the drop was.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/KC9JKgUTQ29XvkCc1RWOGqd8-ueC6fcmsVzL62n64a9GwHwHamR7GSlZqrRNyH6U4z8usDKOX45EPM6bEs_zU9-gqGqSo58Nmv3WiRB2ekX1MyRoSgBmoBwC1HzqUaOv_Li9EA)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipOrFac4evaEy4RJVeG22tnMl0lmOHvPxkrywpE4QvB7pHMZE-jjmZKivLD37zrYaQ?key=MkFFOWRXZnJyOFAydXNDamRRMlFXOUpadllhMWJ3&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/S4i8Qw9VlOqStINFyikrm5qsmwVPsSmByIdkFsKQGAxMf_6jotTN1X_M6qGWY4WlPnWuLUxFs30FKy8Su9hSd6IH8jmgSzOFV_P162O17UQ6byiVTNmgOMwDoFhHuRpBDkw1DQ)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipOoAmPLo95Lao0Z4ZlTiW8IXCm6jxSOTafgW8wHuDvW1WgUjFTRs1s7Ehc9RkQqAA?key=QnZFQl83b3ViSE1sZ2txd0dJZUFtUVlob2JLZFVn&source=ctrlq.org)

As we continued across the glacier we came across a big opening in the ice and
our guide asked us to hang back on the flat area as she went ahead and cut us
some steps and drilled some posts into the ice for a hand rail. It sounds like
we had it pretty easy, but even with these things my city legs still found it
pretty challenging! The advice was to not side step down ridges and slopes but
to keep your toes facing toward because even if the step is not wide enough to
fit your foot this way, it makes it harder to roll an ankle and the crampons
will do a pretty good job of keeping traction as long as you dig them in to the
ice enough.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/qvJG6cgYu6Kdn2u_PdDzYLayKcH18DePObYekPsXZrlmKhJdi73OkmZkIYO-o-U0EakGvASaouG0n8OUCne4U1dtczCyGwfN6pR6onzJY1giGNyAfUmYw-0WKbPndxJZHRGSrg)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipPVaxLUvfdlWSNYxQUUENo1VTX16Me4KAMavtEpJhsCqPtFTHZZU-osFFg61prrZA?key=Nk5qQmd1cElHZFpmVnd2VERtUV9vcXVtTHh5OTh3&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/i_63LQlJTWhWAiX_ZR9rCPaBQmYaOMETOtrNd2QAnw8oCZqoP1sLktedvu2NauZz9eF6d1u26Ik0S5iBJPrFkzirWOYhza155KrXAG6TU7nv_hgvBxUhcgQNDGucJhuNgZi3NQ)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipPOTyVHCDVP0PzILjE_Be6iQTdXakHAxTJZNPHhpIq53pHx6tBqzaKpGiw0JJQamA?key=NzgxbFk5cnRGckZqNnhqcnlPenNKZzVnbWU1QjNn&source=ctrlq.org)

Once we made it down into the cave, it looked so different. One of the coolest
things I've ever seen. The ice was no longer white and broken up, instead it was
like blue tinted, transparent and thick glass! The floor and walls were all
naturally curved by the running water that formed a stream running along the
floor of the cave. We got incredibly lucky with this cave because it just tall
enough for us to crawl through without having get on all fours and just a few
days ago it would have been much smaller and the only way would have been to lie
down and slide through. It was amazing to see and hear this amazing natural
phenomenon in person! Once we crawled through, we were able to climb out the
other side. Unfortunately the steps were pretty tall and as I propelled myself
out of the cave I felt my heel problem immediately return. That cave was amazing
and I'm glad I did it but I was pretty worried I'd be limping for the rest of
the holiday. Walking around on the uneven ground was not the most pleasant
experience after that, but I just took it easy from then on.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/riYBMIsuB5wIF6v_8ZmU4W7tizrk27yfV3PGd4Oviadx0cRNiFaAqoBpKb0IohzGP_wx7pOf0bFxqp7OqKCfi3hVpCvxZRJGbex1CUh-ksZ4XXzzm4ey6FQ4sZEgkbH24U7dpA)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipPrWGZEpUBeos-Q8qjpTneAyiHaVn9N_ehwWSY_oVDCmdixgVUbkhdXMWu3jSy7yA?key=S0hkRHl5ZjNmTWZYNlJDWHVyZjUxYU83VW8ycThB&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/21xO92OA0YjVZOis-SPuHEKNy6mc2pRKDzy9Ysr8UMRQwaFrtiiuxNeZFHgbU8k27I2L41Kq63ZJWUOe3NOMuZOnBAFRS36rvxOrQfJ0kQUGrdda3kJzle4fOz1UyAHGUMebRA)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipP3g2TbCmVC1Wa-y8Lts0i1I1EwECuHlAEhtl2jHSXeAeZu3LD1167Sbvo8nGudig?key=TVpkU28yZ0JlcFktaGIwWXRGOGdrZUY2UXVBVXVB&source=ctrlq.org)

<iframe class="youtube-video" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZO1ZvQxC2c8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/dcMy0IDACe-FGbx9t-b_xeMYGxYbfSycWWPh3PM0fuiPVu7tiKbwltMcxj_E83ib7JecjSdq54wWZ9JUQvUFTS3kNzNqn2OalGUMAm7b4trdjXUNEXdwxkwlF9kDM7GY9sufJg)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipMF4Ga2J9oiNTVXKXbcrwTYemW6CLyUi1puc4bcOspuig_rzX57cJbOuGEHLr-LWg?key=bkFyaGJWSW5sM0JDQVVDU3dOM0FmMmRaOW5mcHFn&source=ctrlq.org)

We did a bit more hiking around and our guide showed us some fairly deep
cravasses and cracks in the ice, some more streams with a frozen over sheet of
ice covering the flow of water and took us to some really clear, almost
illuminated pools of water where we could fill our drink bottles. It was really
nice, clean water and stayed cold for a long time! It was actually really cold
dipping our hands in there to fill the bottles!

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/GP9T-GcZGta19tSr0mARus7iJQv7Mk3xUEdelQtP8CZ4ysz519qaJQi8hQgwPAFBS9KUQqGeT3YBw_vsnt-OJ4Qq8GhNZUVkBPOGfc4GE2JUINMCu1AeNf2QSsa3Rl4DWlvFvQ)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipMPL5TOERd5_1HUmlO-j5J_8p9Mwtj-ILeSXUTLPcQa1K8f5oIx4Nr2SmwYOdZ2VA?key=YVVkRk5PRWVBOEJHd01GdG5XcHhudkU0MkpGMjlR&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/et5uyxAxU2oPJOmgB3b0srfYdywR4_EYtDeqc6e5vL7mkS_fQ8BJL2obHWDlNWtWHt_vgg0sOQ5Xtzo56X40r-0v3mtM8xYpJx3leq7ra1oqzAxcwy9fTH3g4YskiF2zie1rrw)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipOKexLu_wFIgMLsSHO2Qgnhskrz-q1hx6TQpQg-nAtLwB9bSOuqz4ArxfCq-M91hQ?key=Q0Q2dTZfcUJzeHcxTXlOZ1B5ZmdiUGltUVNVbmZ3&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/yL6N5B7EVtZXwX_WT2wUqR9r7ghHY3lbdvX7AvZtbNUdmYQ3pKhm5Uox7dTRahIKymNi5GrKP9wO3EB5TH_cc9D1ygkDBx5009nDP3kLdrOcnd8XILouM9zcEJF3VtyjXzEaIA)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipNHmm4F8k2agZsBgKqTvPpBRIF64f7ztlPY0HosD7hwJJ3lqteAUNTuUszfBj8w-g?key=UUF2c0VDZGF3ZHVweWljVS0xMzdsSXdrblhGWXBB&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/CIQ1xXEiyAD9R_QGv7y4nSllTlriUpPHnTHiFWSssUW9jEw0B3QZ333QX0TAmllPPp9tCo3zM24_UeakJ92gtVfaqZiGOm1Ns1iCGcMYtG-370F-cy_NnqGdIkq3mUed-GKjjg)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipONynHu4Kky4RqSStHSqgXhY2dXngAdzQ3j9kPLL863ndkfn41NkAq2zqbaZBop6g?key=a1N5N1lBWnZ2REI1SlFBZmZLVXFvZEx3UGt2VC13&source=ctrlq.org)

We got back to the helipad and got into our original groups again. The first
group boarded the helicopter and headed back while we waited.

<iframe class="youtube-video" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/fBZo6hIF4-I" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Because we had about 20 minutes to wait again, we switched tour guides and he
took us out to another hole in the ice. He went down the hole first and dug is
pickaxe into the ice so the handle formed a makeshift barrier. He said it is
fairly strong but it's actually more of a mental barrier for people to not go
too far or get freaked out by the empty abyss further down. He then instructed
each of us to go down the path one by one and take a look. I didn't do this bit
because I wanted to give my ankle a break but it did look pretty cool.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/eK5mJTKIhGtuB63gfKzWIrF86nPLckPCVteKrC7RLp2jmu7vK-A7H0eOAKwkLDxky88axHEz8cnjk5BDCcMSG-GGuqs_-oN836mifpp6nJy1oFXWRUPaGoEoLvxMZPB6NO1M5Q)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipMs2puNLNgy57xDSi9D69-CRiJYUQ8t4HlAOBp6z6KgglsyK9fSObjQmkKIyfZqFg?key=ZHNMWGhuWVczVDBITmRldURsWXZRSWlGcGk4NnNR&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/3vNMqKDkwPlPfLoUiYvQix3mICSq3hJXnT2MD5tq7K_jLaqqU_wcqrMlJ5g4lIbJzXFfk2a1yoHpBgdo4Apb2X_tyh1fJp6vF163O3MpflOaacdpv5bVEvR3JQpMdFBhMJOFhg)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipO3lYfOzWXhyJEQnWQ1lDFphd0x2nQMwLfdXf6gFcgSXkNRl8pN939ah-3kc8Fobw?key=djhmTGlPZURscUM3LW9vMWk1cko1WTYzQjRURTRB&source=ctrlq.org)

We made our way back to the helipad, took our crampons off and got into position
for the helicopter to arrive. Our pilot picked us up and took us a bit closer to
the mountain to see if there were any visible land slides which apparently happen
really frequently around there.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-f7mJ81mxbQf9mqPwWlDVBFrx439lyVoL7ruW5WRgFR_gXCoNU4KxLdTizvqq7julIVtQMequY6j1VEfqZjre3T7ZrCvL92263s1a-g0oH2hRM3nRarByqSSMQcYeUV872HeOQ)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipOrh6_3HZT7bW7LSrwzkiKFA38G2Yt9AlLXWj7_b20UHwO-POLt_IL9TWCJ-E_DFQ?key=OWNvMFdKQVYycVluenJITUxzSHdyYXdnMGtBR3FR&source=ctrlq.org)

We finally got back and met up with the other group. Because we wanted to pay
separately we had to drive to the office in town near where we had lunch
yesterday instead of just letting the company charge Amy's credit card that was
used for the deposit.

We got back into town and found the hidden path to their office, it was a little
hard to spot between the trees from the car park! Then we went back to that same
restaurant for lunch. We were all pretty hungry after our glacier adventure and
I ended up eating a pretty big pizza to myself.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/V7cp4YUvQ2vQJFEx5XbKhpeX5ubAuf220gVjtDyplzs2B8GYy0ID2zllSbHwFTAJaBnL9D4S7c1BgftiuV2ZDHFhejt-V8HbGHKSpPB8GdhjEqB9FGKE3HenNeJYs0FP6ZBAHQ)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipMsx3hjD18-Q8U4Q1nQ59RMXg8wxKcKQFMnfci0p75wzNBrCwInQyLzgKUXRFCRbw?key=Nk9obU5ueXBDb2lMdENaYnlQcEUtVlVtSjVCMjhn&source=ctrlq.org)

From here we went back the way we came but this time to continue all the way to
Christchurch. Just as we went past the town where we had dinner we were talking
about that Fruju Tropical Snow ice cream and remember it was still in the
freezer at the house! After all that we still didn't get to try it so we pulled
over and I ran in to that same shop and bought a few of them for the people in
our car. After all the hype, it was actually pretty good. Anthony described it
as "it's like a winter party in your mouth and every tropical fruit is
invited!". I can tick that off the list now.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/cL6Mt-8TGAWYqijVpUbuZ4v8Sj06jDcdUo_SSEDdwhBkpaL0jZD0OEi4mbSIHEo8c-djDUIHYUIBLsbVZs3yq7ku48MO68p9azKFOidrYpHIroNAejHXxsUdaGsL7Lhm4y5tvA)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipP1AN1V41kqcSvvTfOdqi_fjhqQCiL5xpCSbVtSKLVy1ZD95ZeM1w9VSBED8DVYVw?key=RG1xcE1Xbnd4Wm91c3cyRU9DWUE2R2dBckpON2N3&source=ctrlq.org)

After a decent drive we finally arrived in Christchurch and checked in to our
hotel. One of the guys that Anthony worked with (and I met at RailsCamp)
recently moved back to New Zealand so we planned to catchup for dinner. As we
made our way into the city there were witches hats everywhere! None of us have
ever seem so many in one place and after we looked it up, it turns out after the
earthquake disaster the city bought quite a lot! They were definitely put to
good use because even all these years later, there is a lot of construction work
happening everywhere.

We got to our hotel, checked in, dropped off our stuff and jumped back in the
car to meet the others at Burger Fuel. We've basically just had burgers and
Japanese food on this trip - they seem to be the favourites! Burger Fuel wasn't
too bad, they had some interesting flavours. I had a burger with beef, avocado,
mango and beetroot relish. It was pretty good. The other thing that I hadn't
seen before was a "doofer dispenser". I had to ask what it was and the lady at
the counter showed me. It's basically a bit of cardboard that folds up in such
a way that you can use it to hold your burger and catch all the stuff that falls
out and stop your hands from getting dirty. I gave it a try but I don't think it
worked very well.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/uJQUBJRYJYQd8XfSCv4MilJkFjS_a8yCW7bBHkE3jNttbyAlphV18sNEPIUQMBRW1Ke6kt8kv9l5KUc50Lp3ESx8W36Qv9oaGWinQ77ZV9S4sIxqKHDTYIdtj95C9ePBhq3ePA)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipOtDZznQYS4d5-TLmWZ7RuFhlIwhi_p45QihJejm0uZkWP0yT9w4cnLJRsco08YZg?key=OENQT2tGWEJPcFI0bXNrWHczM0h4T1VLMDhmTk5R&source=ctrlq.org)

From there we did a bit of a walk around Christchurch with our local tour guide
friends. We walked through the town center and learned about the earthquake's
devastation. There are still a lot of semi broken buildings around including an
old church with some parts missing. In the middle of town there is a memorial
with white chairs, each one representing a victim that passed away as a result.
There was one section of shops that had completely fallen down and killed some
people in the process, it had since been replaced by a whole bunch of shipping
containers that had been converted into shops. They actually look really good
and until someone pointed out that they were shipping containers I wouldn't have
noticed, it actually looked pretty up market! We got to the war memorial bridge
and the guys played a few games of table tennis. They have some permanent,
concrete table tennis tables installed in the middle of the paved area and there
were even bats and a ball. I couldn't help but think if that were Melbourne
someone would have stolen them. Apparently the whole township really bonded
through the catastrophe and everyone really worked hard to help each other out
which is nice to hear.

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/uvmfVmJoB6dYF7hPMGa7ncXa0H1IER_jjECoJF3IQa39nR6bm8OYZLAXOHLeBGy6GsdFjTiMNXXHh9XfsZtz00BQnDuCxN-X2v0XBS7ImN_OX7JqQVNaIgsOaP6t8Ek_tXB1Vg)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipMufKIf8FpsSXW3v1I_lCchYTwudpgPVTTtnQqlPo_KoAUGOJknb2vQtD0i3op8AA?key=d2FDSjJkUXhhLThfMHplWnNveENBSXhFQVlUU19n&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/xRZeV1EEFV_p1Yf1o975swhbJQ6R46qBYFfIW5S0A65y2him1iUVHMDagNlJAm1_LTIhpYPuPTtuPm7lbebLbUvukGQNY6X4DMGQuH9dLrAfkg59eK95hSZV2AV0xpJPFj4WRw)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipO0z-ou5OwtRTY6XeOgCx0wOkRDF5U5gKZdFkjio1xpaDYqH6N1ZhV0xY0hEDKxgQ?key=VUNFTzc2T2l1YTdXMFgwcFFtUEhaNXhndVhoYnZn&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/btm4xcoKkfPFOuxe-03ale7ZOjY73h_4IUb6iS-Q8IkvF25qdCMxAgnFoc4srDFeWXZIe5kfT8luciwjXoEKb-EwS1Lx691_hcswa-xQ7B_XNf_ljja26D87kGp1rsW2RBMaXA)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipO81QhGm-MJ8JZ9kV_vrmAZDIz6of5IdxFneZeWamEajzobrXs5sfboQ5apN5PntA?key=SGp3bldfUFhhUFFZWHEyTG54cjA2Q3FscDZMcmhn&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/upHNNgGdURfuZt_rxDnnjKt7wd17nQ8uJ7I3H_skhaoBECDTavdFGWU11Vuv1qB71ogU5aS12d-Zr3s0zsYOyrvbv8bzCIU0YmK_g0dZcMj5KnwZTUa2WQNUOq0PL22bwAyiFQ)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipOzndn3efCQ-Qa0MDqqEa1mNrw2lLltgkkwOHtS0L_XcEzCqbfZkrkni-h4aXmjkg?key=LUVZNEYtbzE1NWw0MDRJWVgteUFzdkhQTzh2WlZ3&source=ctrlq.org)

[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/luoC6fdQ97ZlQ54XxjiLbGtW_tbiOWxc0fC4AX5da9d0WQuoeoD0af6LGTvCjWWc2YbLR9WUjBIvgysC5QhwxnsB0Mu_hWwfy1hOoEnG9bA-eCZ9HT7uA6IHB0dAM-x1fDQnhQ)](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipPajHObSYk9q3jq3hL7p_FEcu45liwkyTqW0qkjl1xWnuAZHPtCcAUQvhaJob7icw?key=OG82cVVpWjNSNzBLbWRDQ3J4bHlHeXlaRTItLTdR&source=ctrlq.org)

We walked back through a park and then drove back to our hotel to leave the next
day. We had to get up at a decent time to drop off the car and get to the
airport in time for our flight to Wellington.
