---
title: Day 3
subtitle: Milford Sound
description: ""
pubDate: 2017-04-04
source: https://stevenocchipinti.github.io/2017-NewZealand-Blog/milford-sound/
---

import Grid from "../../../components/AutoPhotoGrid.astro"
import Img from "../../../components/CloudinaryImg.astro"

After a really good night sleep last night we got up, got dressed, packed our
things and were on the road by about 6:15AM. We had a bit of a hard time getting
the van out of the car park, but after about a 9 point turn we were on our way!

The road towards Milford Sound is so nice! It's a good thing I wasn't driving or
we may have stopped way too often to take photos. It was basically lakes and
clouds over mountains again but they were amazing to look at in the low morning
light. It was a little hard to take photos from the car, but we ended up
stopping at a few places along the way. The weather was crisp but dry and still
with a little bit of color in the sky from the sun rise so we ended up stopping
at a rest area and I took the drone out for a spin.

Most of the day was basically driving, stopping for photos, videos or food. A
picture speaks a thousand words so instead of describing everything, I'll just
post the photos and videos!

<Grid>
  <Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/cgqagg1zyusdjnsx0eon" />
  <Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/zdfktmhoznaqavlmwjj8" />
</Grid>

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/scfvSjPGaYY"
  frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/koegyghpbkshtuqist3a" />

We stopped for some breakfast and supplies at Te Anau, which is the last place
to get petrol before the long road to Milford Sound - you don't want to run out
on that road! Anth and Amy went in search of a mini-usb cable and a car mount so
we could charge the GoPro in the car and record a timelapse of the road trip.

<Grid>
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/xua9vqxikc729ewoc61e" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/djfzdqhuhzinpqqsoety" />
</Grid>

After leaving Te Anau it was an other couple of hours and we reach the tunnel!
When you look at the route from Queenstown to Milford Sound, it looks like it
goes the long way around but it has to because of the mountains. Well even
though we drove around so many mountains to get there, there is still one where
you can't get around so there is a (roughly) 1 kilometer tunnel drilled through
the mountain! It's pretty impressive!

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/mi3shaco9v4hmb36mxvf" />

When we finally arrived, there were people everywhere and we timed it perfectly
to get signed in and go straight on to the boat. The first thing we did was
break out our picnic so we could spend the rest of the time taking in the
sights! We made a couple of rolls which we think was a good choice, even though
they sold food on board. We looked very European with our salami, cheese and
bread sprawled out along our table!

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/gocwhm4pnav7ahihylc0" />

The weather was absolutely perfect, we got really lucky! The boat went around
the sound and up to the entrance to the Tasman Sea and back again. Along the way
we actually saw dolphins, which apparently it pretty rare around this time of
year. We also saw some seals and some interesting bird life. On our boat trip we
went passed two waterfalls, the last of which the boat driver moved until the
point where the front of the boat was under to waterfall and the people on the
nose of the boat got saturated!

<Grid>
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/fgxlgjpafryuvdmmevjm" />
  <Img src="2017-new-zealand/qjv1ad8hn4dyyjnxgo1o" />
</Grid>

It was a really nice ride and it wasn't overly crowded, we still managed to get
to the front of the boat for most of the ride (but we skipped the getting wet
part) and the top of the boat was pretty spacious too and had a great view.

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/d0g1coorzdtl6ayzn4cl" />

When we got back to land, there wasn't too much else to do so we just went back
to the car and started the journey back. We made sure to keep switching drivers
to share the load, so I took this leg of the trip. Along the way there was a
pretty big open area with a little river that ran along a break out area so we
stopped to have a walk around and I got to try out the drone again.
Interestingly at the luge area yesterday and at Milford Sound there were signs
saying "no drones", but out here was fine.

I ended up trying out the sports mode too, this drone is quick! It didn't take
long before I couldn't see it in the sky anymore, but the view from the
streaming video was great!

We stopped at a few other places along the way that were marked by the brown
tourist attraction signs. One of those places was called The Chasm and it was an
amazing rock formation carved out by a waterfall, it was really cool!

<Img originalAspectRatio src="2017-new-zealand/pwgbxydyfcnangqnbmtj" />

We finally made it to Te Anau again, stopped for a coffee, switched drivers and
continued home. Along the way, there was a cop hiding on the side of the road
and he caught us going over the limit so unfortunately we have a new souvenir, a
New Zealand speeding fine!

When we got back we tried to find a place to eat. After checking out a few
places, we decided to go the second Japanese place we saw and it was really
good! We got a bunch of smaller dishes to share and it was some of the best
Japanese we've had! We even had some sake with our meals and finished it off
with some sake bombs!

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/s0JC1njzJnc"
  frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

While we were eating, Amy got a message from her mum letting us know that the
chance of seeing the Aurora Australis is very high from Queenstown tonight, so
we went home, got our gear and jumped in the car in search of high ground!

We saw photos of the Aurora from a place called Moke Lake which was only 20
minutes so we went there. It was mostly windy, unsealed, gravel roads and it was
pretty dark but Rob did a pretty good job of driving our Jucy van through those
roads. When we got there, there were some really bright lights and some pretty
big teepees. We couldn't quite tell what they were doing, it didn't look like
your typical camp site and then we saw a van parked near us that was for a movie
production studio so it could have been a movie set. There were even bright
colored lights powered by generators shining on the water.

We tried to take photos of the lake but it wasn't turning out so well. There was
so much cloud cover that we couldn't see a thing, plus the light from the camp /
movie site was providing a little too much light pollution anyway. It looked like
at that very moment, their nearby generator stopped working and one the lights
stopped working, which would have made us look pretty suspicious. They started
driving around and we decided it would be best to leave so we headed home. It
was about midnight at this point, another late night so we went straight to bed.
