---
title: "Code review workflow with GitHub"
pubDate: "2011-09-18"
categories: [git, github, programming]
---

The more I use Git, the more I love it and less I prefer my once trusty SVN.

A while back I read the book _"[Pro
Git](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1430218339?ie=UTF8&tag=prgi-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1430218339)"_
by [Scott Chacon](https://twitter.com/#%21/chacon). The book provides a really
good explanation of how Git works and how to use it effectively. I then found
that this book is [available online](http://progit.org/) for free and it is now
a commonly visited bookmark for me.

Recently my boss sent me a link to a [blog
post](http://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html) by Scott Chacon that
explains the Git workflow that is used at GitHub on a daily basis as we are
going to give it a go for our own projects.

In the post, Scott contrasts this to the commonly known
"[Git-Flow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)" and
describes how they are both good, but Git-Flow is alot more involved, where the
aptly known "GitHub-Flow" is a lot simpler and therefore easier to follow.

For full details, I highly recommend reading the post but basically it involves
keeping a master branch that is always stable (and deployable) and using topic
branches for development. Once a topic branch is tested locally you open a pull
request to have others review it and merge it in to master.

Using pull requests within a single repository for code reviews are really
useful! It allows a discussion thread to take place, commenting on individual
lines of code and keeps a history of the rational for any changes.

A good aspect of this approach is that these topic branches can be pushed to
GitHub constantly as it will not affect anyone else’s work, and allows the team
to have visibility of who is working on what by simply looking at the branch
list page. This of course means that your branches should be descriptively
named.

We have been using this workflow for a little while now and have felt compelled
to make a small modification. We have a staging environment which closely
matches the production environment and is externally available to show clients
new features, etc. To cater for this we have introduced an additional long-term
branch called `staging`.

This doesn’t affect our existing workflow for the majority of cases, but every
now and then we will merge `master` into `staging`, then the topic branch into
staging to `test`/`preview`/etc. (without the need for pull requests/code
review). Once the change is tested/previewed in staging and proven to be good, a
pull request is opened for the topic branch to be merged into `master` (as per
usual).

One thing to note here is that it’s the topic branch to be merged and not the
`staging` branch. Although in most cases this wont matter, if multiple merges
from `staging` into `master` occur it can become confusing. Also the merge
commit description will contain `repo/staging` instead of something more
descriptive, like `repo/bundler-upgrade`.

I have really enjoyed using this workflow and it seems to be working quite well
so far. In the process of implementing this you really get to see how useful
GitHub can be with using pull requests for code reviews and the branch list and
network graph features for visualising not only your own progress, but the
entire project too.
