---
title: "Rooting the HTC Desire HD & Cyanogenmod 7"
pubDate: "2012-03-31"
categories: [android, hacking]
---

At the end of last year my _HTC Desire HD_ got its firmware upgrade to the new
version of _HTC Sense_ - the same version that the _HTC Sensation_ is running.
At the time I thought it was quite cool, having shortcuts on the lock screen is
great and the new eye candy looks pretty nice too.

But there were some very unwelcome changes with this new version too… lag and
poor battery life! I generally keep my phone on charge at work, so I didn’t
think this would bother me, but it got so bad that if I went out after work, by
the time I got home it was flat (from 6pm to later that night). Even swiping
between home screens would lag! So I figured it was time for a new phone, but in
the meantime I thought I may as well experiment with rooting and other OS’s.

To root the Desire HD is quite simple. The first thing to do is go get the
"_[<u>Advanced Ace Hack
Kit</u>](http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=1259821)_" from the
XDA Forums. In the zip file is all the tools you need to run the hack and most
importantly, the aptly named "effen-manual.html", which is _very_ important!

The manual explains everything you need to know, but the first step is checking
that the version of android that you are running can be exploited. I had
software version 3.12.405.1, which judging by the _effen manual_, the hack tool
can automatically downgrade to version 2.50.405.2 where there exists a flaw that
can be exploited to give you root access. Keep in mind that doing this will
wipe your phone, so backup _everything_.

The _effen manual_ also explains how to setup your computer to enable the hack
tool to work properly. There are very few steps for linux which was great!

If you follow the instructions correctly, you will then have a stock standard
install of an older version of HTC Sense. There are some advantages to having
root access such as apps like titanium backup, ad blockers, etc. but the real
fun comes from installing new Android ROMs.

I looked at 2 third party ROMs, the first was [Cyanogen
Mod](http://www.cyanogenmod.com/) and the second was [Android
Revolution](http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=840040).

Android Revolution looks pretty good. Visually it looks and behaves just like
HTC Sense but they have made lots of improvements under the hood which in turn
increases performance and battery life. As good as this looked, I haven’t
actually tried this option yet. Instead, I opted to go for a bigger change of
scenery and give Cyanogen Mod a go.

Cyanogen Mod does not look like HTC Sense at all. Instead it is based on stock
standard Android 2.3. They have then implemented a slew of changes that come as
default, such as an audio equaliser,
[ADWLauncher](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.adw.launcher&hl=en),
the super-user app, a completely customisable button widget in the notification
bar, customizable lock screens and a pretty cool torch app that lets you over
charge the LEDs for super brightness! This mod also lets you overclock the
hardware, put limiters in place and lots of other options I was not used to
seeing in the HTC Sense ROM.

The 2 most important advantages of this change are that the UI is now quick and
responsive again, I now have complete control over which effects are used and
things like how long the animations should last, etc. and I have the best
battery life I’ve ever had with this phone - I can now use the phone pretty
heavily all day without needing a charge until I go to bed!

Very happy with it now and it should keep me tied over until the Samsung Galaxy
SIII is released :)
