---
title: "Samsung Galaxy S3"
date: "2012-08-21 12:50:00"
categories: [Samsung Galaxy S3, review, android]
---

At the end of June this year, I upgraded from a HTC Desire HD to a Samsung
Galaxy S3, so I thought after a couple of months of having my new phone I should
write up a (really long) post on what stood out for me.

## The positive

The **screen and form factor** is awesome! Due to the plastic body and the thin
shape, this phone is really light and slips into your pocket nicely. The massive
4.8" screen really shines when watching videos and browsing the web. I regularly
watch screencasts on my phone and the 1280x720 resolution gives me plenty of
detail. The colour contrast is a lot higher than my previous phone, which makes
the blacks look really deep and videos stand out nicely. The marketing video
that the phone comes with does demo it off quite well!

The **battery** is fairly good. My requirement for battery life is that I can
use it all day and by the time I get home / go to bed, it hasn"t died. Not a
high expectation, I know, but these days its hard to expect more. This phone
meets that requirement quite easily. On the days I don"t use my phone much, I
get home after a days work with more than 50% remaining (which is huge compared
to my last phone!) and on the days I use it quite heavily, I get home to about
30%-40% which easily lasts me the rest of the night. My usage generally includes
syncing gmail, facebook, twitter, weather, RSS reader, work email (during peak
hours), I am generally connected to wifi most of the time and I regularly browse
the web and watch videos / listen to podcasts during my commute.

The general **responsiveness** is miles ahead of my last phone too! Day-to-day
usage is smooth and rarely experience any lag. This will be improved even more
when Jellybean is released (rumoured to be soon!).

**"Smart Stay"** is a new innovative feature from Samsung where just before the
screen is about to timeout and turn off, the phone will take a photo of you with
the front-facing camera and use face (or eye) detection to work out if you"re
still looking at it. If you are, it will keep it on for another minute or so, if
you"re not, then it will dim the screen and check again soon after, which then
will actually turn it off. This is to avoid that
randomly-scrolling-to-avoid-the-screen-turning-off trick that most people will
do when reading a long article. Thankfully, this feature is quite effective and
I haven"t needed to do that for a while, although it doesn"t work very well in
the dark!

In the settings, there is a section called **"Motion"**. I won"t go through all
of the options, as there are about 10 different ones, but some are quite handy.
By far the best one IMHO is **"Direct call"**, which lets you directly call a
contact whose call log details, contact details or message details are displayed
on the screen by simply putting the phone to your ear from that screen. Feels
very natural. Another nice one is **"Smart alert"**, which will give a little
vibration when you pick it up from a stationary location if you have a missed
call or sms.

The **camera** on this phone is not too bad either. Obviously it will never
replace my dSLR, but it has some nice features that even my dSLR doesn"t have.
The burst fire mode is really quick, but Samsung have introduced a feature
called **"best shot"**, which will analyse each of the photos you took in the
burst and pick the ones it thinks turned out the best, based on focus and face
detection. You can adjust what was picked, and then the others are automatically
discarded (saves you having to go through the 14 bad ones and delete them
later). The camera has a **built-in HDR** mode which works quite well too and
the **photo editor** provides heaps of enhancements and corrections, including
red-eye reduction, color balance, cropping, etc.

Another nice feature is found in the video player, it has a **"pop-out"**
button! This means that if you"re in the middle of a video and you wanted to
quickly google something, or reply to an sms, you can just pop out the video,
which turns the full screen player into a small, floating, always on top window
that you can drag around, do what you need to do, and then make it full screen
again. Not something that I"ve needed to use very often, but on the rare
occasion I have, it's been quite nice.

I use my calendar religiously and on my older HTC, the default app looked nice,
but didn"t have many features. I ended up swapping it out for [Business Calendar
Free](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=netgenius.bizcal&hl=en) just
so I could get a month view with text, instead of indicators. The stock Samsung
calendar, **S Planner**, however is not too bad! It integrates with their S
Memo, which I don"t use, but comes with a good number of viewing options, my
favourites being their month view and analogue week view. It also has a nice
**"Quick add"** feature that lets you enter "Dinner at Nandos tomorrow 7:30pm"
and it does what you"d expect. This doesn"t support anywhere near as much as
Google Calendar does, but its better than nothing!

I lashed out and bought an **official Samsung Desktop Dock**, and comparing this
to my cheap eBay special I bought for my HTC, not only does it look quite nice,
but it automatically launches the desktop clock app when I dock it and after 5
minutes it dims the screen and hides the other UI elements other than the clock.
I like this feature a lot because I otherwise don"t have a clock in my room, so
its really handy for me!

As with all things, there are pro's and con's. Here are some of the things I
don"t like.

## The negative

Android have decided to **remove USB Mass Storage mode** (my biggest pet hate
with Android right now!) This leaves you with 3 alternative options for copying
files to and from the device: Media Transfer Protocol (MTP), Camera mode or
using an app such as [Kies
Air](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.samsung.swift.app.kiesair&hl=en)
or [File
Expert](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=xcxin.filexpert&feature=search_result#?t=W251bGwsMSwxLDEsInhjeGluLmZpbGV4cGVydCJd).
MTP and Camera mode both don"t give you access to all the directories on the
phone, but for just transferring media it should be ok. Note that MTP will work
out of the box with Windows, but if you run Mac or Linux like me, you will need
to install software to get it to work (and Linux is a pain for this!). The
reason for this change is because USB Mass Storage mode will mean you have to
unmount the partition from the system in order to mount it to the computer,
whereas MTP will allow you to access it in both places at once, but its slower
and requires software. For phones like the Galaxy Nexus, this makes sense as
there is only one partition, but with the S3, I would like to see the option of
just unmounting the memory card (with is separate from the system storage) and
allow that to work with USB Mass Storage mode.

Another annoying thing I have found with this phone is sometimes the **home
screen will randomly die**. This causes lag while all the widgets reinitialise
themselves. It doesn"t happen often, but when it does, its annoying considering
its a simple software issue. Hopefully this is fixed with Jellybean release!

On a related note, I find the random delay between pressing the **unlock
button** and the screen actually turning on to be annoying too, considering my
older HTC was basically instantaneous everytime, this phone seems to vary quite
a lot. I find myself pressing the button while its still in my pocket, just so
by the time I have it in front of me, the screen is ready.

A couple of other minor things include the **notification LED** being really
bright, which is ok, but while the phone is docked my bedside, it will light up
the entire room quite easily. This is kind of funny considering "smart stay"
doesn"t work well at night. Maybe instead of just green and red, the LED should
have also included an IR LED for that. Not only is the LED really bright, but
when the battery becomes fully charged, it will turn on the screen and popup a
notification, which is also not very nice when I"m trying to sleep. I know most
of you are probably thinking a solution would be to turn it off at night, but I
[scheduled my phone to download
podcasts](https://blog.stevenocchipinti.com/2012/03/xkcd-beyondpod.html) during
these hours with
[BeyondPod](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=mobi.beyondpod&hl=en)

- I think the pro's outweigh the con's in this situation.

Also minor, but there is **no stock flashlight app**, which I wanted to put in
the lock screen shortcuts. It does come with a 2x1 widget, but to get a shortcut
on the lock screen, I ended up downloading one of the million flashlight apps
out there.

Speaking of widgets, the HTC widgets were really nice, but I find the
**widgets** that came with the Samsung are not quite as useful, luckily they are
in abundance on the play store too!

## The other stuff

Here are some other noteworthy things which I haven"t really made up my mind if
I like yet or not.

The music player has a feature called **"Music Square"** and I love the idea of
it, but I"m not sure how effective it is. Basically you index your music library
and it categorises each of your songs into 2 scales: _"Exciting_ to _Calm"_ and
_"Passionate_ to _Joyful_". These two scales make up the axes of the music
square and by tapping where your mood is will play those types of songs. It's a
great idea and I need to experiment with it more to see how effective it is.

A lot of the features in the phone are **voice activated**. For example, you can
say _"answer"_ or _"reject"_ when it is ringing (as long as the ringtone isn"t
too loud); _"snooze"_ or _"stop"_ when the alarm is going off (as long as thats
not too loud); _"smile"_, _"cheese"_, _"capture"_ or _"shoot"_ to take a photo
(as long as your close enough for the phone to hear you); _"next"_,
_"previous"_, _"pause"_, _"play"_, _"volume"_, etc. to control your music or the
radio (as long as thats not too loud either). As you can see, the usefulness of
these features are dependant on the environment.

**S Voice** is Samsung's answer to Siri, and even the UI's look similar, but
while its great in theory, I think the most useful thing about Siri on the
iPhone or S Voice on the Galaxy would be SMS/email dictation, but that is the
one thing these features don"t work that well for, at least for me anyway -
maybe its just my voice!

## The conclusion

In the end I am very happy with my new phone, it is leaps and bounds above my
old phone, its really responsive other than the random home screen lag and
unlock button delay, it has some nice new innovative features and is a joy to
use. Also, with the Jellybean release (hopefully) around the corner, it can
only get better.
