---
title: "Arduino Web Server with SD card reader"
pubDate: "2012-07-27"
categories: [arduino, hardware]
---

import Img from "../../components/CloudinaryImg.astro"

I've had an interest in electronics since a very young age, but I never really
went further than building simple circuits as a kid and learning the theory and
following diagrams through school. There's always the odd repair job, and
plenty of theoretical knowledge from family, friends and university, but I
wouldn't be able to design the electronics of anything complex.

A little while back, a [friend of mine](http://michael.chandler.id.au/) got an
email from [meetup.com](http://meetup.com/) with suggested meetups. One of them
was the [Melbourne
Hackduino](http://www.meetup.com/Hackduino-Electronics-Meetup-Group) meetup. So
he forwarded it on to our group of friends and a few of us went along to check
it out. I've always wanted to play with a microprocessor, but never really put
the time aside for it. Being a software developer there was always this barrier
between the programs I write and making them do something in the real world.

Well, in the last week that barrier has been lifted! The meetup was great and
hearing about other people's hobbies and projects provides plenty of motivation!
We heard stories about everything from people trying to optimize solar hot water
systems to building full size mechanical avatars. It was a lot of fun!

[Mark Butt](http://au.linkedin.com/pub/mark-butt/28/507/539), the organiser of
the event gave us a presentation of [some of the cool things he has done in the
past](http://www.springrocket.com.au/portfolio/), such as an arduino powered bar
counter top that detects what drink you put on it and a run down of some of the
things he plans on doing in the future, all very cool!

One really nice bonus was the generous offering from
[Freetronics](http://www.freetronics.com/). There were a few people from
Freetronics at the event and other than being very knowledgeable, they brought a
big bunch of assorted hardware to give away! They had everything from RGB LEDs
to full blown Arduino boards. I was lucky enough to score an [EtherMega
2650](http://www.freetronics.com/products/ethermega-arduino-mega-2560-compatible-with-onboard-ethernet#.UA3bC3AwyGo),
which from what I can tell is a beefed up Arduino with an Ethernet port (with
power over Ethernet) and a MicroSD card reader. Some of my friends got a [LCD
shield](http://www.freetronics.com/products/lcd-keypad-shield#.UA4RrXAwyGp) that
can display 2 rows of 16 characters and has a few buttons on board. For those
that aren't up with the lingo, a shield is an attachment for a standard Arduino
board to add functionality.

Together we had enough hardware to be able to make something cool! :-) Needless
to say after some great conversations about hardware hacking and being given
some gear to get going, we were all pretty keen to get started hacking, so on
the following Saturday three of us got together for a hack night. The guys came
around that night, we ordered pizzas and worked through the night till about
5:30 AM! We had one experienced hardware guy,
[@asellitt](https://twitter.com/asellitt), but the other two of us,
[@optiks](https://twitter.com/optiks) and I, were completely new to this, but
between Anthony, the sample code that comes with the IDE and the Internet we
picked it up pretty fast! By the end of the night we had the first version of
CarDuino!

[CarDuino](https://github.com/HACD/CarDuino) is a simple game where you hold the
screen in portrait orientation and move your car from side to side to avoid
obstacles. It's a very simple game, and we have plenty more features in mind for
the future, but it was a great first project!

After sleeping in till about lunch time there next day, I wanted to put my
EtherMega to use, so I spent the rest of the day fiddling with that. With
network access, power over Ethernet and a card reader, this is a perfect
platform for controlling things via a web interface. As my background is web
development, this was right up my alley! Using various sample code, I put
together a [really basic web
server](https://github.com/stevenocchipinti/ArduinoWebServer) that can respond
to different requests and serve files from its built in memory card reader.

<Img
  originalAspectRatio
  src="blog/wkljpd1awd0cdmeinzba.jpg"
  alt="My Freetronics EtherMega 2560 serving files from the memory card on a webserver! "
/>

In just a few days, we went from no Arduino experience to a working project (or
two). Especially with basic programming experience, the entry level for getting
into Arduino is really low. When you buy (or build) a board and download the
software, you have enough sample code with the IDE to make things happen, and
you can get a lot done by simply copying and pasting!

I recommend having a play with this stuff, its really fun and more than likely,
one day you will come across a problem that you will be able to solve with an
Arduino!
