---
title: "Spam defence"
date: "2012-03-07 11:14:00"
categories: [email]
---

For quite a long time I used to use Yahoo! Mail. Even though I was lucky enough
to get an invite for Gmail in its early stages, Yahoo! Mail had (IMO) one killer
feature: _Address Guard_

The idea behind _Address Guard_ was simple, you make your primary email address,
say `john.smith@yahoo.com`, and then a secondary _"base name"_, such as
`johno007`. This _base name_ was not just another email address, infact all mail
sent to `johno007@yahoo.com` would get dropped. Instead, use that base name to
create an unlimited number of _"disposable addresses"_, such as
`johno007-facebook@yahoo.com`, etc.

The idea was that if you follow the simple 3 click process (settings ->
addressGaurd -> add new address!) to create a new disposable email address every
time you signed up for a new website, if ever they spammed you, you simply
delete that address and they wont be able to bother you any more - brilliant!

I avoided Gmail because they didn’t have the same _"whitelist"_ approach to
email addresses, but when I bought my domain name and started using Google Apps
for email, I decided to use Gmail as my primary email provider. Naturally this
forced me to look for a similar way to defend again spam (albeit Gmails spam
filtering is quite good).

Google Apps provides _"nicknames"_, which works in much the same way, you can
have an unlimited number of aliases for an account, except the process was a bit
longer (settings -> manage domain -> users -> Your user -> Add a nickname) and I
got too lazy for that after a little while. I still use nicknames for certain
things, but not for every website I sign up for.

That’s when I discovered the `+` symbol in Gmail. Unlike Yahoo! Mail that uses
the _"whitelist"_ approach (only addresses you created will accept mail), you
can use Gmail with a _"blacklist"_ approach (all addresses accept mail unless
you block them).

Assume your email address is `john.smith@gmail.com`, you can append a `+` and
then any (valid) characters you like to the end, such as
`john.smith+facebook@gmail.com` and it will still get delivered.

If some rogue website starts sending spam to `john.smith+dodgysite@gmail.com`,
then you can go into the Gmail settings and setup a filter to delete all mail
that is sent to: `john.smith+dodgysite@gmail.com`.

I don’t think it’s quite as nice as _Address Guard_, but it is a bit more
convenient because there is no set up. The biggest downside is that quite a few
websites consider an email address to be invalid if it has a `+` symbol in it,
but most are fine.
