---
title: "A few photography tips"
date: "2012-12-14 13:44:00"
categories: [photography]
---

A little while ago, my brother got me a photography course as a gift, so I asked
a friend of mine, Amy, to join me and last Thursday night we attended the
course. The course was a "Night Landscape" tutorial where we all brought our own
cameras and a professional photographer guides us through how to take photos at
night. The class was quite small, it consisted of Amy and I with one other
student.

The course started out quite basic and we went though some fundamental theory, a
lot of which Amy and I already knew, but the other student was a little less
experienced so the photographer needed to cater for all of us. Luckily it was
just a small class, because instead of following the standard course structure,
the photographer spent more time in conversations with us, answering all our
specific questions.

Being self-taught, I am grateful for that, because these conversations were what
lead me to learn a few new things that I hadn't picked up in my own research so
far. Here is a quick summary of the things I learned:

## 1. Blowing out the sky, intentionally

The first new tip I learned was a trick the photographer used when the scene has
an unusable sky, such as a dull cloud cover (like last night in the rain). He
would take another photo that was intentionally over-exposed so the sky was as
white as possible. By doing this, afterwards in Photoshop a pure white sky is
very easy to select, even through the leaves of a tree or someone's hair using
tools like the magic wand, or a color-based selection and can be replaced with a
more dramatic sky from another shoot.

## 2. Hand-holding at night

At night, it is normally quite hard to take photos without blurring the shot
unless you have a tripod, but there is a simple rule of thumb that can help with
selecting an appropriate shutter speed:

> Make the denominator of the shutter speed match the focal length

So if you are shooting at a 20mm focal length, the shutter speed should be about
1/20. Of course, this isn't a perfect rule, but it is a great place to start and
you can adjust from there.

## 3. Freezing human motion

So the previous tip will make it easy to minimize any blur from yourself when
holding the camera, but that wont help with people in your shot moving around.
Well this photographer recommends:

> Use a shutter speed of 1/125 as a baseline to freeze human motion

It turns out that most movement from people is slow enough for this shutter
speed to capture it sharply, and of course you can adjust as necessary.

## 4. Filters to allow for more creativity

So far the only filters I have used are a "Circular Polariser" to enhance sky's,
cut out reflections, etc. and a "UV" filter to protect the lens. Our
photographer had quite an impressive set of filters and gave us a demo of his
"Neutral Density" (or "ND") filter and a "Graduated Blue-Yellow" filter. Long
exposures can look really good at night, but they are normally impossible during
the day, but with the ND filter, not much light gets through, so long exposures
are needed even during the day. Our photographer had a street art photo with
blurred clouds and deep dark colors in the middle of the day - it looked
fantastic! The "Graduated Blue-Yellow" filter changes the color of the light
that comes through, and in this case, it enhances the blue colors of a sky at
the top of the shot and the earthy yellow tones of the ground on the bottom of
the shot. I had only ever known these colors to be improved like this with the
use of software, but these filters had a great effect straight from the camera.

## Summary

So at the end of the day, the course was quite basic, but in our tangential
conversations I gained some pretty cool tips and tricks. I think the most
valuable aspect of a course like this is not so much the material presented, but
just to experience another photographers style. It's always interesting to see
how everyone thinks about things in their own unique way, and going through
other peoples photos with a conversation is really intriguing.

Thanks to Rob and Sarah for the gift and Amy for keeping me company!
